Vivacious : This word is specially used for Women/girl(attractively lively(jindadil) and animated)
	Synonyms: lively,jaunty,jolly, full of fun.
	"She was very bubbly and vivaciuos women who had usually no difficulty meeting people."

disparage :insult, mortify
	"He never missed an opportunity to disparage his competitors."

Intrigue : Secret Plan, Saazish
	The cabinet was nest of intrigue.(the secret planning of something illicit or Detrimentol to someone).
	"I was intrigued by your question." Arouse curiosity or interest of; fascinate

Intrigues me : muzase saazish.

rejuvenate: make (someone or something) look or feel younger, fresher, or more lively.
There is a strong community effort to rejuvenate the river.

fudge: Thagana

Trickery : fraud, deceit
	 "The Dealer resorted to trickery."

assassinated : murder in surprise attack for political or religious reasons.

splendid : magneficient, very impressive, superb, spectacular, stunning.
	"A splendid view of windsor castle."
	"A slendid beauty of lake."

Mitigation: Action of reducing the severity
	"Mitigation Plan."

Envisaged: Presumed (Parikalpit)
	   "The Doll museum was envisaged by popular cartoonist,K Shankar pillai."

Hindrance : Obstacle, interrupt, barrier, Impediment
	a things that provide resistance, delay, or obstruction to something or someone.
	"a hindrance to the development process."

Chaotic : factious, disloyal , scattered, confused, unsettled, helter-skelter(asth vyasth)
	IN state of complete confusion and disorder.
	"A chaotic jumble of spools, tapes and books."
	
Boon : Vardan, a things that is helpfull or benificial
	"The navigation system will be boon to both civilian and military users"
	a favor or request
	"may i have inestimable boon of few minute conversation?"
	
Conciliation meeting : Sulah baithak

nagging: annoy or irritate person:
	The over protective and nagging Parents
	A nagging pain.
	"she constantly nags her daughter about getting married."
	
Pinnacle:peak,summit, height pointed peace of rock.

Skeptical: having doubts
	"The public were deeply skeptical about some of praposals."
	
Jargon: (Shabd JAAL),slang,cant,doubletalk,doublespeak, Special word or expressions that are used by a particular profession or group and are difficult for understand.
		"Legal Jargon"

Seditious: riotous,rebellious(vidroh),causing people to rebel against the authority of state or monarch.
	"The letter was declared seditious."

Demeanour: behaviour,
		"a quiet somber demeanour."

Charismatic: Karishmai, Charming, fascinating, strong in charecters
	"A charismatic leader"
	
Decisive: Nirnayatmak , Conclusive, Settling an issue, producing a definate result.
	"The Supreme court voided the statute(Kanun) by a decisive 7-2 vote."

Blunder: A stupid or careless mistake

Among: "arouse enthusiasm among people. "
	"He was among the forst 29 student enrolled."

Heyday: The perod of person's or thing's greatest success, popularity or vigor.
	"The paper has lost millions of readers since its heyday in 1964"

Vigor: physical strength and good health, Energy

Appalled: greatly dismay or horrify.
	Chakit karna , Dhamkana, Bhaybhit karna... scare, frighten, intimidate, threaten, dismay, horrify
	"Bankers are appalled at the economic incompetence of some officials"
	
Revealed : Make known to others. Disclose
	"Brenda was force to reveal Robbies whereabout"
	
Finnesse: chalaki, deciet

Temerity: Utavalapan. excessive confidence or boldness; audacity
	"no one had the temerity to question his conclusions"
		
Poise: Santulan; Balance
	"He poise motionless on his toes"
	
Asylum: Sharan;
	"She applied for asylum and was granted refugee status"
	
Tedious: uninteresting, faint, dull, bored.
	to long, slow or dull; tiresome or monotonus
	"Its long, tedious interview and I am not going to go through it point by point"
	"After a long and tedious journey, I reached bled, the place where the conference was to be hold"

Tenacious: Drudhata. firm, strong, steadfast, determined,
	"He is remebered as tenaciuos and talented Developer/Manager"
	"The team has fabulous, tenaciuos defence"
	"He was one of the most tenacious individuals I'd ever come across"
	
Stringent: Harsh, stiff, rigid, tough, drastic.
	"DELHI air poluttion guidelines are Stringent"
	stringent penalty

Abruptly: Suddenly, unexpectedly

Vivid: Producing powerfull feeling or strong, clear images in the mind.
	"memories of that evening were still vivid."

Despite: neverthless, irregardless
	Outrage, Injury : "the despite done by him to the holy Kuran"
	Contempt;disdain: "the theater only earn my despite"
	without being affected by, in spite of: "he remains a great leader despite age and infirmity"	

Cumbersome: difficult, impracticable, 
	"Now, tax saving is set to become a less cumbersome process"
	
Paradigm: model, example. sample. MISAL
	"There is new paradigm for public art in country"

latencies: delay,
	"Event based software and hardware system typically have some latencies"
	
Anology: Samanta

Harmony: SAMANJASYA, agreement or concord.
	"Man and machine in perfect harmony"

contiguous: Adjacent
	"Sharing a common border;touching"
	"The 48 contiguous state"
	
consecutive: Continuously ; following Continuously;
	"five consecutive month of serious decline"
	
discrete: Seperate.
	"The constructional elements are presented discretely ."
	
evasion : TALANA, BAHANA. forfend, procrastinate. The action of evading something.
	"the aroid evasion of almost all questions"

vis-a-vis : face to face, ke ru-ba-ru-ba-ru, aamne samne

Modus Operandi: methodology. A particular way or method of doing something.. Kaam karne ka dhang.

Camouflaged: Gopaniya,keep hidden, Hide. hide or disguise the presence of person,animal or object
	"the war area had to be camouflaged with mud"
	
fraudently : Dhokese

Sleuths: Adhikari, spy, detective, carry out a search or investigation in the manner of detective.

dilignetly : Parishrampurvak. Team has work diligently.	

plowing: cultivating farm

erudite : scientific, scholor, scientist

poring: scrutinize,stare, gape, see into

Condemned : Critisize, expressed complete disapproval of, typically in public. NINDIT

descretion : vivek

stint :  Karyakal

Solicit: Mangna(requested)	, He called meeting to solicit their views.

Slated: schedule plan, Critisize severly. his work was slated by the critics

belligerency: yuddha me rat hone ka dasha, hostilities

innumerable: too many to be counted , innumerable flags of all colors

astonished: greatly surprised or impressed; amazed. surprise or impress (someone) greatly. "you never fail to astonish me"

stirred: move a spoon or other implement around in (a liquid or other substance) in order to mix it thoroughly.

aristocrat: an aristocrat by birth, noble MAHAN
fervor: JOSH, enthusiasm
Urge: agrah karna
Rapidly : expeditiously, soon, 
tempted: Lubhana, seduce, attract, lured
thoroughly:fully, utterly,absolutely
enormously: extremly, vastly,
beehive : Madhumakhi ka Chatta
weary: tired
notorious: Kukhyat, notorious goon
sinister: terrible , sinister gang leader
benefactor: Karna, a person who gives money or other help to a person or cause.
stoutly: well made
futile: void, insignificant, pointless, Vyarth ,"incapable of producing any useful result; pointless."
resentment: bitter indignation at having been treated unfairly.
indignation: anger or annoyance provoked by what is perceived as unfair treatment.
dread:great fear or apprehension.
engender: originate, PAIDA KARNA "cause or give rise to (a feeling, situation, or condition).
the issue engendered continuing controversy"
robust : strong and healthy; vigorous, robust, Muscular, substantial, durable, has broad shoulders
SOAP API is a robust and powerful web service
rigorously tested: कठोरता से परीक्षण किया गया, strictly, rigidly, daurly, rigorously
rogue: evil, rogue, nasty, malevolent, felonious, depraved, rogue, rascal, scoundrel, roguery, jack, swindler, a dishonest or unprincipled man.दुष्ट
Ordeal: अग्नि परीक्षा - a painful or horrific experience, especially a protracted one.
Avinash narrated his ordeal to Dainik Bhaskar

Degrade : अपमानित - नीचा - Degrade his wife and infant daughter
RUIN - बर्बाद. They would ruin me and my family. the physical destruction or disintegration of something or the state of disintegrating or being destroyed.

alleged: आरोप लगाया. Mr verma alleged 
beaten up : पिटाई - kick me, punched me and hit by lathis
plucked up: उखाड़ना
quips: चुटकी ली , ताना Taunt
gallows:फांसी
endeavoured  : try hard to do or achieve something.
tussle :engage in a vigorous struggle or scuffle.संघर्ष
Stubborn : Jiddi, Haati
Plummet :  fall or drop straight down at high speed. Delhi air pollution plummet due to lockdown.
fretting : constantly worried or anxious. She fretted about cost of groceried.
apprehended : Arrested someone for a crime.
incinerated :  destroy by burning.
elusive: difficult to find , catch or achive.
phenamenol: Very remarkable, extraordinary.
tolerate : endure, Sahan Karna. bear
Lured : Tempted someone. Kisiko Lalach dena.
Hallucinations: Delusion, figment of the imagination
Possessed: Completely controlled by evil spirit. 
		   Have a belonging to one.
		   Have sexual intercourse with a women
		   
Jeopardize : Endanger. Put into a situation in which there is danger, loss, harm, or failure.

Deteriorating : Becoming progressively worse.
adversities: Calamity , disaster, difficulties, misfortune.
grappling: Zhujana, engage in cloce fight or struggle without weapon. Automobile industries are grappling in covid19 lockdown due to global economic falldown.

Vicissitudes : sukh - dukh, chadhav Utar. change of circumstances or fortune, typically one that is unwelcome or unpleasant.

Eroded: destroy. gradually wear away
Delusional: Bhram ka shikar hona.
Frenzy: a state or period of uncontrolled excitement or wild behiour.
Rage:  violent anger
Tantrum: uncontrolled anger.
Obnoxious: Apriya
Cynical: Nindak
Mortification : great embarassement or shame
Penance: Deh clesh . Tapasya
Stoicism : 
Remorse: Pachatava
Morsel : Nivala
Cresendo: Tej, Gradual increase in loudness in a piece of music.
juxtaposed: compare
apparently: as far as one one 
garned : gather or collect information.
Obeisance: faith, respect, honor. Deferential respect.
insurmountable: to great to be overcome. Durgam.
conspiracy: sajish, conspiracy theory
Compel: Majbur karna. I will compel him to sell his farm.
obscenity: Behudapan
clinches:
Misogyny: dislike women community
Embarked: go on board ship, aircraft, or other vehicle.
Profound: a person having great knowledge or insight. Deep knowledge.
Inevitable: Apraiharya. situation that is unavoidable.
staggering: chakkar aana. walk or move unsteadily. as if about fall.
deteriorating: become progressively worse
Deceit: cheat, deception, fraud, hypocricy, bluff , spuff. Deceiving someone by missrepresenting the thruth
Burial: Dafan karna
Exodus: a mass departure of people, especially migrants.
Precinct:  Limit, range, boundry.
Ominous: Amangal, Ashubh. Manhus. Jinx, sinister..... giving the impression that something bad or unpleasant is going to happen.
Valour: वीरता.  Bravery... great courage in the face of danger especially in battle.
Confront: meet face to face with hostile.
Amnesia: भूलने की बीमारी.
Toil: work extremly hard or incessantly.One years of Toil and deligence, I was finaly done.
Interospection: Self analysis. self examination. आत्मनिरीक्षण
Bibliophile: पुस्तक प्रेमी A person who has great love of Books
Voracious: wanting great quantity of food. PETU, Khadaad
Dearth: अकाल. a scarcity or lack of something.
Trepidation: feeling of fear or agitation about something that may happen.
Reckless: Laparvah. Careless, irresponsible. Without thinking about consequences of an action.

Cope: deal effectively with something difficult. डटकर मुकाबला करना.  Anger

Tranquility: peace, serenity, calm. the qualitvby or state of being calm.

Forgo: त्यागना, छोड़ देना,  omit or decline to take (something pleasant or valuable); go without.
she wanted to forgo the dessert and leave while they could

voyage:go on a long journey, typically by sea or in space.जलयात्रा

abomination : a thing that causes disgust or hatred. नफरत
this bill is an abomination to all mankind

atone : प्रायश्चित
fanatic: कट्टरपंथी - a person filled with excessive and single-minded zeal, especially for an extreme religious or political cause.

whence: जहां से -  from what place or source.

heir : वारिस - a person legally entitled to the property or rank of another on that person's death.

penitent - पश्चातापी - feeling or showing sorrow and regret for having done wrong; repentant.

vows: शपथ

Dynasty : राजवंश

invaders : घुसपैठ करनेवाला

vilification :abusively disparaging speech or writing.गालियां देना
































		   



























	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
